hey guys my name is Steve Fagan also
known as tiberio Spain and I'm the lead
game designer for chivalry medieval
warfare and the president of tambien
studios today we'll take a look at the
basics of combat in chivalry medieval
warfare in a lot of other games melee is
a very static simplistic or boring
experience in chivalry however melee
combat is the main focus so we knew we
had to come up with the system that made
melee combat exciting and skill based
that's why in chivalry medieval warfare
you a full real-time control of your
swing with the ability to alter the path
you reppin travels at any time with the
mouse this truly makes you feel like you
are swinging the weapon with your own
hand players have the ability to launch
three basic attacks which on most
weapons are horizontal strike vertical
strike and thrust combining these
attacks from real-time strikes feature
allows you to perform almost any kind of
strike you want we also wanted players
to engage in exchanges trading blows
back and forth at a high intensity just
like you see in classic medieval movies
from Hollywood and we've tried to
capture that with the faster pacing of
the game what brings even more life in
intensity to the exchanges as that
blocking is also free form directional
it's rather than simply selecting a
direction to blocking you will actually
turn your screen in real time towards
your enemy's weapon while carrying to
play block blocking isn't the only way
to defend yourself as players in
chivalry medieval warfare can also evade
strikes evasion is done in a couple of
different ways the first method is where
you attempt to stay out of reach when
your opponent is attacking you and move
in range when you are attacked
there's also dodging which allows you to
quickly leap in or out of combat with
your opponent dodging is accomplished by
quickly double tapping one of movement
keys and be great for setting up counter
attacks or avoiding a killing blow from
your opponent players can also dug
beneath incoming strikes or even jump
over them there's a whole lot more of
the comment system than this as we've
only covered about half of the basics so
I hope you check out melee basics part 2
in a future developer blog if you're
interested and want to keep up to date
on development join our community at
shivery the game com / forums and help
us make the game